---
title: "Why"
bg: white
color: black
fa-icon: check
---

# Why should I support a Basic Income?

#### It allows people to be genuinely free

True freedom means freedom from coercion x. If we live in a society that forces people to generate profit for a company in order to stay alive, how can we say that we are truly free? 

A Basic Income gives everybody the freedom to say “no” to unsafe, illegal, unpleasant or unethical working conditions and financial dependencies within abusive relationships. We teach our children the importance of being able to say “no” in the bedroom, and it’s time we extended the same values economically.

When people are free from forced work, they’re free to do their best work. Many people today want to do something to improve themselves/their community/the world but their time and energy is drained generating profit for an employer. 

> “I am somehow less interested in the weight and convolutions of Einstein's brain than in the near certainty that people of equal talent have lived and died in cotton fields and sweatshops” -- Steven Jay Gould

#### It would end poverty
We live in the most abundant time in history with more empty homes x than homeless people x and more food is being produced than can be eaten x, so why do we continue to allow people to go homeless and hungry?

> “There is nothing new about poverty. What is new, however, is that we have the resources to get rid of it.” - Martin Luther King Jr

We guarantee a certain level of healthcare to all people because an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure and we should do the same for poverty, given that poverty is linked with an increased need for child services x , prisons x and policing x .

The current “default income” is $0/wk and if people want to change that then they have to actively do something about it. With a Basic Income the “default income” would be a livable wage so while poverty may not be eradicated entirely, people would have to actively try to fall into it. 


#### We live in a technologically unprecedented time in history 
200 years ago life expectancy was half of what it is today. 75 years ago programming languages didn’t exist, 45 years ago machine learning had just been conceptualised, 30 years ago the internet became open to the public. The world is changing and the traditional rules for structuring society don’t make sense any more.

Technology that is currently in its relative infancy such as self-driving cars, Amazon Go, farmbot and machine learning algorithms are predicted to put approximately 50% of the workforce out of a job within the next 20 years x and while all evidence shows that new “bullshit jobs” x will be invented to keep everyone busy, the reality is that we don’t need everybody working to keep society functioning (and if we did then there wouldn’t be more job-seekers than there are jobs x). For some this displacement will mean going back to university to study programming but for many without 4+ spare years for retraining this will be devastating. 

For all of human history up until a few hundred years ago 80-90% of the population were farmers because they had to be in order to keep everybody alive. Today that figure in Australia is closer to 1% x (and with fully automated farming technology recently introduced to the market x we could see that figure soon move closer to 0%) which leaves a huge amount of “slack” in the economy. The argument that we need to force people to work to earn a living made sense when we needed “all hands on deck” but simply doesn’t hold up to the reality of modern day.

> "You ever think about how bad we had to fuck up to create a world where robots taking all the jobs is somehow a bad thing?” -- @heatdeath on twitter


#### The role of the government should be to empower the people, not make decisions for them

Traditional thinking would suggest that in order to empower people and combat poverty that the government should provide services, but studies x x x have shown that it’s more effective to just give cash directly because people in poverty know best how to use the money allocated to them. We live in the most educated society in history x and we need to acknowledge that poverty is primarily due to influences in our collective economy rather than an individual's lack of education.

> “The task of government is not to make decisions for you or for anyone. The task of government is to enable you to make decisions for yourselves. Not to see the truth of that statement is fundamentally to mistake the genius of democracy. We have made too many mistakes of this type---but no more. Our job is to get resources to people in need and then to let them run their own lives.” --  Richard Nixon 


#### It would boost to the economy

The natural state of our economy is for money to pool at the top in the hands of the richest, by raising taxes on them and distributing money to all it forces circulation into the system, increases the Velocity of Money x and increases demand in the market. 

> “Give [money] to the people at the bottom and the people at the top will have it before night, anyhow. But it will at least have passed through the poor fellow’s hands” -- Will Rogers

Studies have shown people are more entrepreneurial when they are protected from risk x and when they are free to innovate x - a Basic Income ensures both. 


#### It will empower workers

To fight for unions and workers rights isn't enough. So long as people's livelihood is dependant on employment there will always be workers taken advantage of because the poorest workers will never have the freedom to walk away from bad working conditions. 

A Basic Income would also empower workers to more freely fight for their own rights. Without fearing for their livelihood they would be able to strike and withhold their labour indefinitely. 

> “Can the hungry go on a hunger strike? Non-violence is a piece of theatre. You need an audience. What can you do when you have no audience? People have the right to resist annihilation.” -- Arundhati Roy
